# Credit Card Fraud Detection
Nowadays credit card misuse is more likely as a result of increased credit card use. Both the owners of credit cards and financial institutions suffer large financial losses as a result of credit card theft. The primary goal of this paper was to identify such scams, which includes public data accessibility and high-class unbalanced data, evolving fraud tactics, and high false alert rates. There are numerous machine learning-based methods for detecting credit cards, including the Decision Tree, Random Forest, Support Vector Machine, Logistic Regression, and XG Boost. However, because of their poor accuracy, modern deep learning algorithms are used. To get effective results, a comparative examination of both machine learning and deep learning algorithms was done. The European card benchmark dataset was used for fraud detection. The dataset was first subjected to a machine learning technique, which somewhat increased the accuracy of fraud detection.Later, three convolutional neural network-based designs were used to boost the effectiveness of fraud detection. The precision of detection was further improved by adding more layers. By varying the number of hidden layers, epochs, and using the most recent models, a thorough empirical investigation was conducted. Enhanced outcomes were obtained, with optimum values for accuracy, precision, recall, and f1-score of 98.5%, 97.28%, 86.6%, and 91.63%, respectively. For situations involving credit card detection, the suggested model performs better than cutting-edge machine learning and deep learning techniques.
